[[APES]]
[[Unit 4]]



**Earth's Structure**

* Core: Solid mass of nickel, iron, and radioactive elements releasing heat.
* Mantle: Liquid layer of magma surrounding the core, kept liquid by heat.
* Asthenosphere: Solid, flexible outer layer of mantle beneath the lithosphere.
* Lithosphere: Thin, brittle layer of rock floating on the mantle, broken into tectonic plates.
* Crust: Outermost layer of the lithosphere, Earth's surface.

**Plate Boundaries**

* **Divergent Plate Boundary:**
    * Plates move away, creating mid-ocean ridges, volcanoes, and seafloor spreading.
* **Convergent Plate Boundary:**
    * Plates move towards each other, leading to subduction, mountains, island arcs, earthquakes, and volcanoes.
* **Transform Fault Plate Boundary:**
    * Plates slide past each other, creating earthquakes.

**Convection Cycles**

* Magma rises towards the lithosphere.
* Magma cools and expands, forcing plates apart (divergent boundaries).
* Magma sinks back into the mantle and melts, creating magma that rises (convergent boundaries).

**Subduction Zones**

* Convergent boundaries where one plate subducts beneath another.
* Continental-Continental: Mountains are formed.
* Oceanic-Continental: Coastal mountains, volcanoes, trenches, and tsunamis are formed.
* Oceanic-Oceanic: Mid-ocean volcanoes and island arcs are formed.

**Transform Fault Boundaries**

* Plates slide past each other, creating faults and earthquakes.

**Tectonic Map Predictions**

* Ring of Fire: Volcanoes around the Pacific plate.
* Offshore island arcs.
* Transform faults: Earthquake locations.
* Hotspots: Areas of magma rising to the lithosphere, creating mid-ocean islands.