**In December of 2022, as a freshman in high school, I downloaded the Duolingo app for the first time. I knew that at some point in the next four years I would have to complete two foreign language courses in order to graduate, and I wanted to start learning one. When presented with the dozens of options of different languages to learn, I, for a reason I can’t quite remember, chose Arabic. 

I am a third generation American, with ancestry from Poland, there is not one bit of my genealogy that I know of that is middle eastern. But still, I chose Arabic. It was such a foreign and different culture and language to me, that it had attracted my interest. Whenever I saw text written in Arabic, I had always wondered how anyone could even read what those squiggles on the page meant, so I decided to find out. 

And I kept at it, doing a couple lessons a day, always making sure to never lose that streak number that I was growing surprisingly attached to. Rewiring my brain to read from right to left, learning the new alphabet, and forming new phonetics that my throat was not used to, it posed quite a challenge, but I enjoyed the learning itself. Soon enough came time to choose my courses for sophomore year, and sure enough, I found out that my state offered online Arabic courses for me to continue my learning, going beyond simply the language, but exploring the culture, traditions, and history of the Arab world. 

Well over 1000 days since that first step, what started out as just a random curiosity has turned into an academic passion and a unique skill I can bring to my future career. I hope to continue my journey studying Arab and Near Eastern culture at Hopkins as a break from the world of numbers and code, and I hope to continue to embrace where my curiosity leads me. 